#	MongoDB 

-	MongoDB is a document oriented NoSQL database used for high volume of data storage


##	What is MongoDB?

-	MongoDB is a document-oriented NoSQL database used for high volume data storage
-	It falls under the category of a NoSQL database


##	MongoDB Features

-	Each database contains collections which in turn contains set of documents
-	Each document can be different with varying number of fields
-	The size and content of each document can be different from each other
-	The document structure is more in line with classes and objects. But classes are not rows and columns but have a clear structure with key-value pairs.
-	With NoSQL databases the rows doesn't need to have a schema defined beforehand
-	Instead, the fields can be created on the fly.
-	The MongoDB environments are highly scalable


##	MongoDB Example

-	Document structure in mongo db

	{
		_id: 563479cc8a8a4246bd27d784,
		customerName : 'bharath',
		order : {
			orderId: 123,
			product: productA,
			quantity: 5
		}
	}

-	The _id field is added by MongoDB to uniquely identify the document in the collection
-	What we can note is that the Order Data (OrderID, Product, and Quantity ) which in RDBMS will normally be stored in a separate table, while in MongoDB it is actually stored as an embedded document in the collection itself. This is one of the key differences in how data is modeled in MongoDB


##	Key Components of MongoDB Architecture


-	_id:
	-	This is a field required in every MongoDB document. The _id field represents a unique value in the MongoDB document
	-	The _id field is like the document's primary key
	-	If you create a new document without an _id field, MongoDB will automatically create the field
	
-	Collection :
	-	This is a grouping of MongoDB documents
	-	A collection is the equivalent of a table in RDMS such as Oracle or MS SQL
	-	A collection exists within a single database. ollections don't enforce any sort of structure.
	
-	Database :
	-	This is a container for collections like in RDMS wherein it is a container for tables
	-	Each database gets its own set of files on the file system
	-	A MongoDB server can store multiple databases
	
-	Document :
	-	A record in a MongoDB collection is basically called a document
	-	The document, in turn, will consist of field name and values
	
-	Cursor :

	-	This is a pointer to the result set of a query
	-	Clients can iterate through a cursor to retrieve results
	
-	Field :
	-	A name-value pair in a document
	-	A document has zero or more fields. Fields are analogous to columns in relational databases
	

-	JSON :

	-	This is a human-readable, plain text format for expressing structured data
	-	plain text
	
	
##	Why Use MongoDB?


-	Document-oriented: 
		
	-	Since MongoDB is a NoSQL type database, instead of having data in a relational type format, it stores the data in documents. This makes MongoDB very flexible and adaptable to real business world situation and requirements.
	
-	Ad hoc queries :
	
	-	MongoDB supports searching by field, range queries, and regular expression searches
	-	Queries can be made to return specific fields within documents
	
-	Indexing :

	-	Indexes can be created to improve the performance of searches within MongoDB
	-	Any field in a MongoDB document can be indexed
	
-	Replication and High Availability :

	-	MongoDB provides high availability with replica sets
	-	A replica set can consists of two or more mongo DB instances
	-	Each replica set member may act in the role of the primary or secondary replica at any time
	-	The primary replica is the main server which interacts with the client and performs all the read/write operations
	-	The Secondary replicas maintain a copy of the data of the primary using built-in replication
	-	When a primary replica fails, the replica set automatically switches over to the secondary and then it becomes the primary server
	
-	Load balancing or Sharding or High Scalability:
	
	-	MongoDB uses the concept of Sharding to scale out horizontally by splitting data across multiple MongoDB instances
	-	MongoDB can run over multiple servers, balancing the load and/or duplicating data to keep the system up and running in case of hardware failure
	
	
##	Data Modelling in MongoDB

-	The data in MongoDB has a flexible schema
-	In SQL databases, we must have a table's schema declared before inserting data
-	MongoDB's collections do not enforce document structure : this makes MongoDB so powerful

-	When modeling data in Mongo, keep the following things in mind

	
	-	What are the needs of the application:
		-	What data and the type of data needed for the application. Based on this, ensure that the structure of the document is decided accordingly
	
	-	What are data retrieval patterns:
		-	If we have a heavy query usage then consider the use of indexes in data model to improve the efficiency of queries
		
	-	Are frequent insert's, updates and removals happening in the database
		-	 Reconsider the use of indexes or incorporate sharding if required in your data modeling design to improve the efficiency of your overall MongoDB environment
		
		
##	Difference between MongoDB & RDBMS


RDBMS | MongoDB | Difference
------|---------|-------------
Table |	Collection	| In RDBMS, the table contains the columns and rows which are used to store the data whereas, in MongoDB, this same structure is known as a collection. The collection contains documents which in turn contains Fields, which in turn are key-value pairs.
Row	| Document	| In RDBMS, the row represents a single, implicitly structured data item in a table. In MongoDB, the data is stored in documents.
Column	| Field	| In RDBMS, the column denotes a set of data values. These in MongoDB are known as Fields.
Joins	| Embedded documents	| In RDBMS, data is sometimes spread across various tables and in order to show a complete view of all data, a join is sometimes formed across tables to get the data. In MongoDB, the data is normally stored in a single collection, but separated by using Embedded documents. So there is no concept of joins in MongoDB.
	
	
	
## Other Differences

-	Relational databases are known for enforcing data integrity. This is no concept of data integrity in MongoDB.
-	RDBMS requires that data be normalized first so that it can prevent orphan records
	-	Normalizing data  has the requirement of more tables, which will then result in more table joins, thus requiring more keys and indexes
	-	As databases start to grow, performance can start becoming an issue in RDBMS
	-	MongoDB doesn't have data Normalizing requirements. MongoDB is flexible and does not need the data to be normalized first
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	