#	How to Create Database & Collection in MongoDB

-	In MongoDB, the first basic step is to have a database and collection in place. 
-	The database is used to store all of the collections, and the collection in turn is used to store all of the documents. 
-	The documents in turn will contain the relevant Field Name and Field values.


##	Creating a database using “use” command

-	The "use" command is used to create a database in MongoDB. If the database does not exist a new one will be created
-	If the command is executed successfully, then MongoDB will automatically switch to the database once created.

		
##	Creating a Collection/Table using insert()
	
-	The easiest way to create a collection is to insert a record (which is nothing but a document consisting of Field names and Values) into a collection. 
-	If the collection does not exist a new one will be created.

			
			db.Employee.insert
			(
				{
					"Employeeid" : 1,
					"EmployeeName" : "Martin"
				}
			);
			
			
##	Adding documents using insert() command

-	MongoDB provides the insert () command to insert documents into a collection. The following example shows how this can be done.
	-	Step 1) Write the "insert" command
	-	Step 2) Within the "insert" command, add the required Field Name and Field Value for the document which needs to be created.
	
	
	
	
##	Add MongoDB Array using insert() with Example

-	The "insert" command can also be used to insert multiple documents into a collection at one time. The below code example can be used to insert multiple documents at a time.

	-	Step 1) Create a JavaScript variable called myEmployee to hold the array of documents
   
	-	Step 2) Add the required documents with the Field Name and values to the variable
		
	-	Step 3) Use the insert command to insert the array of documents into the collection
	
				
				var myEmployee=
				[
				
					{
						"Employeeid" : 1,
						"EmployeeName" : "Smith"
					},
					{
						"Employeeid"   : 2,
						"EmployeeName" : "Mohan"
					},
					{
						"Employeeid"   : 3,
						"EmployeeName" : "Joe"
					},

				];

				db.Employee.insert(myEmployee);
				
	
##	Printing in JSON format

-	db.Employee.find().forEach(printjson)



	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	


			
	

