#	Mongodb Primary Key

-	In MongoDB, _id field is used as the primary key for the collection so that each document can be uniquely identified in the collection. -	The _id field contains a unique ObjectID value.
-	By default when inserting documents in the collection, if we don't add a field name with the _id in the field name, then MongoDB will automatically add an Object id field.
-	If we want to ensure that MongoDB does not create the _id Field when the collection is created and if we want to specify we own id as the _id of the collection, then we need to explicitly define this while creating the collection.

				
					
					db.Employee.insert({_id:10, "EmployeeName" : "Smith"})

					
-----------------------------------

##	MongoDB Query Document using find() 


-	While performing a query operation, we can also use criteria’s or conditions which can be used to retrieve specific data from the database
-	MongoDB provides a function called db.collection.find () which is used for retrieval of documents from a MongoDB database.

	
-	retriveAll

			db.employee.find({});

-	find for an Employee whose name is "Smith" in the collection , hence we enter the filter criteria as EmployeeName : "Smith"			

			db.Employee.find({EmployeeName : "Smith"}).forEach(printjson);

-	finding all Employee's whose id is greater than 2	

			db.Employee.find({Employeeid : {$gt:2}}).forEach(printjson);
			
	-	The $gt is called a query selection operator, and what is just means is to use the greater than expression
	
------------------------------------------------	
	
##	MongoDB Cursor 
	
-	When the db.collection.find () function is used to search for documents in the collection, the result returns a pointer to the collection of documents returned which is called a cursor.

-	By default, the cursor will be iterated automatically when the result of the query is returned. 
-	But one can also explicitly go through the items returned in the cursor one by one. 
-	If you see the below example, if we have 3 documents in our collection, the cursor object will point to the first document and then iterate through all of the documents of the collection.
			
				
					var myEmployee = db.Employee.find( { Employeeid : { $gt:2 }});

					while(myEmployee.hasNext())
					
					{

						print(tojson(myEmployee.next()));
					
					}

##	MongoDB order with Sort() & Limit() Query

###	What is Query Modifications?

-	Mongo DB provides query modifiers such as the 'limit' and 'Orders' clause to provide more flexibility when executing queries


###	MongoDB Limit Query Results
	
	
		db.Employee.find().limit(2).forEach(printjson);

###	MongoDB Sort by Descending Order
		
		
		db.Employee.find({}).sort({Employeeid: -1}).forEach(printjson);

--------------------------------------------
##	MongoDB Count() & Remove() Functions


				db.Employee.count()


##	Deleting Documents


				db.Employee.remove({Employeeid:22})

				
## MongoDB Update() 


			db.employee.update(
				{employeeId: 2},
				{$set: { "EmployeeName" : "Bharath"}};
			);

-	Updating Multiple Values
	
		
			
			db.Employee.update
			(
				{
					Employeeid : 1
				},
				{
					$set :
					{
						"EmployeeName" : "NewMartin"
						"Employeeid" : 22
					}
				}
			)

























