#	MongoDB Regular Expression 


##	Using $regex operator for Pattern matching

			
					db.Employee.find({EmployeeName : {$regex: "Gu" }}).forEach(printjson)

					
-	Here we want to find all Employee Names which have the characters 'Gu' in it. Hence, we specify the $regex operator to define the search criteria of 'Gu'
	
		
			
					db.Employee.find({EmployeeName : {$regex: "^Guru99$"}}).forEach(printjson)  


-	Here in the search criteria, we are using the ^ and $ character. 
-	The ^ is used to make sure that the string starts with a certain character, and $ is used to ensure that the string ends with a certain character. 
-	So when the code executes it will fetch only the string with the name "Guru99".



##	Pattern Matching with $options


-	$options is used to pass the additional options for regular expressions
-	For example, suppose we wanted to find all the documents which had 'Gu' in their Employee Name, irrespective of whether it was case sensitive or insensitive. If such a result is desired, then we need to use the $options with case insensitivity parameter


				db.Employee.find(
					{ 
						EmployeeName : {
							$regex : "Gu",
							$options : 'i'
						}
					}
				).forEach(printjson);
				
				
-	The $options with 'I' parameter (which means case insensitivity) specifies that we want to carry out the search no matter if we find the letters 'Gu' in lower or upper case.



##	Pattern matching without the regex operator

-	we can also do pattern matching without the regex operator. The following example shows how this can be done.
			
				db.Employee.find({EmployeeName: /Gu/}).forEach(printjson)

				
-	The "//" options basically means to specify search criteria within these delimiters. 
-	Hence, we are specifying /Gu/ to again find those documents which have 'Gu' in their EmployeeName.




##	Fetching last 'n' documents from a collection

				db.Employee.find().sort({_id:-1}).limit(2).forEach(printjson)
				
				
				
-	When querying for the documents, use the sort function to sort the records in reverse order based on the _id field value in the collection. The -1 basically indicates to sort the documents in reverse order or descending order so that the last document becomes the first document to be displayed.

-	Then use the limit clause to just display the number of records we want. Here we have set the limit clause (2), so it will fetch the last two documents.




